>> Steve Kinney: We'll talk
a little bit about transformation.
Transformation is breaking apart our
source code into, we've turned it into
that internal representation but
we want to do something with it.
Like right now we have an interpreter but
we don't have a compiler, right?
We don't have a compile target.
We want to be able to do that.
And so really what that
turns into is being able to
manipulate the AST and
turn it into that tree.
Or if that's not your compile target,
that's fine too, right?
There is like one point like to get like
a self hosted language the language is
written in itself, right?
But that's some next level stuff.
Right now we want to get a language.
[LAUGH] Then we'll worry about
hosting language in itself.
And so there's a really a popular
pattern for manipulating these trees.
You can just write functions where
the ability to traverse the tree and
the ability to transform it
are deeply tied next to each other.
Or you can begin to look at this
thing called the visitor pattern.
And the visitor pattern is not
necessarily abstract syntax tree or
programming language specific.
That is where it is commonly used and
it is very popular,
but it is not necessarily
directly tied to that.
We don't necessarily have to use it there.
It does come from the Design Patterns
book by the gang of four.
And it's very cleanly
summarized in this diagram.
Any questions?
Moving on, sound good?
[LAUGH] Yeah, it's,
it's not actually that bad.
Basically the pattern is we do
a depth first search of the tree.
The big thing is that the visitor pattern
tries to separate the mechanism for
traversing that tree
with the transformations.
So we can write, hey, here's how we go
up and down the tree and all of that, so
we write that logic out.
And there will be some tied to our
implementation, cuz we do need to know.
We know that call expressions
have arguments, but
the string literals don't, right?
So it'll figure out roughly,
given the shape of this,
the type of apps and
the type of language that we're building.
Given the shape of that, yeah,
we roughly need to like figure out how to
get up and down it, but there could be
very many different ways that you
are trying to actually transpire it.
We know that Babel has a tone of
features that you can turn on and
off that do different transformations.
Each one of those does not shift with it's
own bespokability to navigate that tree.
That is written in and of by itself and
the different transformations that you
wanna do and kind of be composed together
and we go up and down the tree and
do those things, right?
And so we might chose to
write some visitors that will
transpile our code to JavaScript, cool.
We might try to write some visitors
that transpose it to Ruby, fine,
or Python or I don't know if
closure script would be worth it.
But you can do it, right?
But we might also choose to,
and we're gonna do both today.
We're going to choose maybe as a step
to transform our own language to
add additional syntax, right,
that we don't currently have.
So we're gonna be able to
take a look at that as well.
And so the visitor pattern allows us to
define different types of actions for
each node visited as it walks the tree.
And so basically you can define
methods on the visitor and
it basically looks at the type of that
node, calls that method on the visitor and
go like, hey, do you know anything
about what we should do here?
And it either does or it doesn't.
All right,
there are some tools that you can use like
babel has one that is built in, as well.
I'll just show it to you real quick, but
we're actually going to write our own,
which is you can give it an AST and it has
this idea of entering and exiting a path.
So entering is when it enters
that part of the tree and
exiting is when it's leaving, right?
So you can try to do stuff.
And a lot of times, you can actually
access the parent and so on and so forth.
So this one is, basically what it does
is it visits every node in the tree.
And it says,
you're a VariableDeclaration, neat.
In the babel tree for
a variable declarations,
there are three kinds of var,
const, and let, right?
And so
what this would do is it would break it,
once you had broken apart your
entire code with the Babel parser,
you could theoretically write this
to walk the tree, visit every node.
And if you see that,
you are a VariableDeclaration, cool.
And you have the kind of var,
well, I'm going to modify you and
turn you into a let.
And all of a sudden you look like a big
hero when you've refracted all the code
base without being the hero that
tries to do a find and replace and
then finds every instance of like V-A-R in
some other word and messes up the copy.
Right, along the lines.
This allows you to programmatically
visit everything and figure it out.
Again, this is how we do it for
our product.
We go ahead we take the HTML,
we break into an AST.
We let the person use it.
We change all the information, but
we then we have to send an HTML
email out the other way.
So we go ahead, we pull it out,
we do all the stuff, and
then we string it all back together.
And some of the reasons that we do that,
would I prefer that just
have a JSON object?
Absolutely, right, but
given the fact that we have to support
every campaign that has ever been
sent with the product, right?
The safest and
most responsible thing to do was to
build this translation layer, right?
It didn't make sense for us to necessarily
go and do all that kind of stuff.